docs/2.Basics/Installing Checkov.md, before:

---
layout: default
published: true
title: Installing Checkov
nav_order: 1
---
Installing Checkov is quick and straightforward—just install, configure input, and scan.

### Install From PyPI Using Pip

```shell
pip install checkov
```

or

```shell
pip3 install checkov
```

### Install on Alpine

In general, it is not recommended to use Alpine with larger Python projects, like Checkov, because of incompatible C extensions.
Currently, Checkov can only be installed on Alpine with Python 3.11+, but it is not officially tested or supported.

```shell
pip3 install --upgrade pip && pip3 install --upgrade setuptools
pip3 install checkov
```

### Install with Homebrew

```shell
brew install checkov
```

## Upgrading Checkov

If you installed Checkov with pip3, use the following command to upgrade:

```shell
pip3 install -U checkov
```

or with Homebrew

```sh
brew upgrade checkov
```

## Configure an input folder or file

### Configure a folder

```shell
checkov --directory /user/path/to/iac/code
```

### Configure a specific file

```shell
checkov --file /user/tf/example.tf
```

### Configure Multiple Specific Files

```shell
checkov -f /user/cloudformation/example1.yml -f /user/cloudformation/example2.yml
```

### Configure a Terraform Plan file in JSON

```json
terraform init
terraform plan -out tf.plan
terraform show -json tf.plan  > tf.json 
checkov -f tf.json
```

Note: The Terraform show output file `tf.json` will be a single line. For that reason Checkov will report all findings as line number 0.

```json
check: CKV_AWS_21: "Ensure all data stored in the S3 bucket have versioning enabled"
	FAILED for resource: aws_s3_bucket.customer
	File: /tf/tf.json:0-0
	Guide: https://docs.prismacloud.io/en/enterprise-edition/policy-reference/aws-policies/s3-policies/s3-16-enable-versioning
```

If you have installed jq, you can convert a JSON file into multiple lines with the command `terraform show -json tf.plan | jq '.' > tf.json`, making it easier to read the scan result.

```json
checkov -f tf.json
Check: CKV_AWS_21: "Ensure all data stored in the S3 bucket have versioning enabled"
	FAILED for resource: aws_s3_bucket.customer
	File: /tf/tf1.json:224-268
	Guide: https://docs.prismacloud.io/en/enterprise-edition/policy-reference/aws-policies/s3-policies/s3-16-enable-versioning

		225 |               "values": {
		226 |                 "acceleration_status": "",
		227 |                 "acl": "private",
		228 |                 "arn": "arn:aws:s3:::mybucket",
```

Commit message:

feat(general): Added the jq requirement note (#6447)
Added the jq requirement note

the plan file needs to be pretty printed in order to see the issue in the code block. If the plan file is in raw json then the code block doesn't appear. This isn't obvious in the documentation. I added a note.

Co-authored-by: itai1357 <44339653+itai1357@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Chanan Merari <chanancool@gmail.com>

docs/2.Basics/Installing Checkov.md, after:

---
layout: default
published: true
title: Installing Checkov
nav_order: 1
---
Installing Checkov is quick and straightforward—just install, configure input, and scan.

### Install From PyPI Using Pip

```shell
pip install checkov
```

or

```shell
pip3 install checkov
```

### Install on Alpine

In general, it is not recommended to use Alpine with larger Python projects, like Checkov, because of incompatible C extensions.
Currently, Checkov can only be installed on Alpine with Python 3.11+, but it is not officially tested or supported.

```shell
pip3 install --upgrade pip && pip3 install --upgrade setuptools
pip3 install checkov
```

### Install with Homebrew

```shell
brew install checkov
```

## Upgrading Checkov

If you installed Checkov with pip3, use the following command to upgrade:

```shell
pip3 install -U checkov
```

or with Homebrew

```sh
brew upgrade checkov
```

## Configure an input folder or file

### Configure a folder

```shell
checkov --directory /user/path/to/iac/code
```

### Configure a specific file

```shell
checkov --file /user/tf/example.tf
```

### Configure Multiple Specific Files

```shell
checkov -f /user/cloudformation/example1.yml -f /user/cloudformation/example2.yml
```

### Configure a Terraform Plan file in JSON

```json
terraform init
terraform plan -out tf.plan
terraform show -json tf.plan  > tf.json 
checkov -f tf.json
```

Note: The Terraform show output file `tf.json` will be a single line. For that reason Checkov will report all findings as line number 0.

```json
check: CKV_AWS_21: "Ensure all data stored in the S3 bucket have versioning enabled"
	FAILED for resource: aws_s3_bucket.customer
	File: /tf/tf.json:0-0
	Guide: https://docs.prismacloud.io/en/enterprise-edition/policy-reference/aws-policies/s3-policies/s3-16-enable-versioning
```

If you have installed jq, you can convert a JSON file into multiple lines with the command `terraform show -json tf.plan | jq '.' > tf.json`, making it easier to read the scan result. NOTE: `jq` is required to show the code block as seen below. 

```json
checkov -f tf.json
Check: CKV_AWS_21: "Ensure all data stored in the S3 bucket have versioning enabled"
	FAILED for resource: aws_s3_bucket.customer
	File: /tf/tf1.json:224-268
	Guide: https://docs.prismacloud.io/en/enterprise-edition/policy-reference/aws-policies/s3-policies/s3-16-enable-versioning

		225 |               "values": {
		226 |                 "acceleration_status": "",
		227 |                 "acl": "private",
		228 |                 "arn": "arn:aws:s3:::mybucket",
```
